Skip to navigationSkip to contentHelp using this website - Accessibility statement
MY NEWS
MY CLIPPINGS
MY COMMENTS
MY HISTORY
MY BENEFITS
SUBSCRIBE LOG IN REGISTER If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our
LOGIN PAGE
.If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our
LOGIN PAGE
.

The Sydney Morning Herald
World
Altered States
Environment
Blog Central
You are here: Home World
Search smh: Search in:
smh.com.au
 
East Ukraine breaks Easter truce with fatal shooting
Date
April 21, 2014 - 2:23AM
10 reading nowRead later
Bertrand De Saisset
 
inShare
submit to redditEmail articlePrint

 
A pro-Russian militant guards a truck carrying the bodies of killed pro-Russian separatists at a checkpoint outside Slaviansk.
A pro-Russian militant guards a truck carrying the bodies of killed pro-Russian separatists at a checkpoint outside Slaviansk. Photo: AFP
A deadly gunfight in restive east Ukraine has shattered a fragile Easter truce, with Russia declaring it was ‘‘outraged’’ at the return to violence in the crisis-hit former Soviet republic.

Three pro-Russian militants and one attacker were killed early on Sunday in a firefight at a roadblock close to the separatist-held town of Slaviansk, a local pro-Kremlin rebel leader, Vyatcheslav Ponomarev, said.

Vladimir, a masked 20-year-old pro-Russian rebel who was at the barricade, told AFP: ‘‘Four cars pulled up to our roadblock around 1am. We wanted to conduct a check, and then they opened fire on us with automatic weapons.’’

A checkpoint outside the town of Slaviansk, where three pro-Russian militants and one attacker were killed on Easter Sunday.
A checkpoint outside the town of Slaviansk, where three pro-Russian militants and one attacker were killed on Easter Sunday. Photo: AFP
He said there were about 20 attackers, and confirmed the three rebel deaths, but was not sure of casualties on the other side.

An AFP photographer saw the bodies of two militants laid out in a truck near the scene.

The identity of the assailants, who escaped before militant reinforcements arrived, was not known.

The Ukrainian interior ministry confirmed there was an ‘‘armed clash’’, but gave a toll of one dead and three injured. It said police were investigating.

The gunfight broke days of relative calm.

Western-backed authorities in Kiev had announced they were suspending military operations to oust the rebels over Easter, which ends on Monday. The last deadly clash was last Thursday, when three pro-Russian militants were killed by Ukrainian soldiers when they tried to attack a military base in the southeast port city of Mariupol.

Russia’s foreign ministry said Moscow was ‘‘outraged at this provocation by the fighters’’ and urged Kiev to abide by an accord signed in Geneva on Thursday by Ukraine, Russia, the United States and the European Union.

Moscow blamed Sunday’s deaths of those it called ‘‘innocent civilians’’ on the Right Sector, an extreme-right group that was at the vanguard of protests that ousted Ukraine’s pro-Kremlin president Viktor Yanukovych in February.    

But Right Sector spokesman Artyom Skoropadsky in Kiev dismissed the charge as ‘‘a clear provocation by the Kremlin’’.

The deputy head of Ukraine’s National Security and Defence Council, Viktoria Syumar, said Moscow was orchestrating the violence.

The stalled implementation of the Geneva agreement threatened to deepen the worst East-West crisis since the Cold War.

Russia has tens of thousands of troops massed on Ukraine’s eastern border in what NATO fears is a state of readiness to invade.

The Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), tasked with monitoring the Geneva accord, said it was sending a high-ranking team to east Ukraine on Sunday.

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier urged all parties to abide by the Geneva agreement, warning in an interview with newspaper Bild am Sonntag that ‘‘there won’t be many more chances for a peaceful solution’’.

Russia refuses to recognise the authority of Kiev’s pro-Western government.

In comments to be broadcast on US television on Sunday, Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk lashed out at Russian President Vladimir Putin for having a ‘‘dream to restore the Soviet Union’’.

Mr Putin has blown hot and cold on the crisis, from threatening, saying he ‘‘hoped’’ he would not have to invade Ukraine, to conciliatory, saying ‘‘no obstacle’’ existed to better relations with the West.

US Secretary of State John Kerry told Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov that ‘‘full and immediate compliance’’ was needed within ‘‘the next few days’’.

US Vice President Joe Biden is scheduled to visit Kiev on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, a poll conducted by Kiev’s Institute for International Sociology suggested just over half of the Ukrainians in the eastern Donetsk region were against coming under Russian rule again, while over a quarter were in favour.

AFP


 

Recommended for you

Aussie heads for weekly win against Kiwi
Read laterClick to play video
Woolworths 'harassment' CCTV
Watch later

Elite athletes like Ian Thorpe need more support to cope with ...
Read laterClick to play video
Hot weekend ahead
Watch later

Car prices could tumble if PC recommendation adopted
Read later
Recommended
 Chinese spies at Sydney University
Chinese spies at Sydney University
National
 Twice done over by one-armed bandits
Twice done over by one-armed bandits
NSW
 South Korean ferry evacuation crippled by chaos: transcript
South Korean ferry evacuation crippled by chaos:…
World
From Around the Web
 US sounds alarm on possible North Korean nuclear test
US sounds alarm on possible North Korean nuclear test
Nikkei Asian Review external site
 Terrifying Footage of a Woman Being Sucked into a Whirlpool in CaliforniaPlay Video
Terrifying Footage of a Woman Being Sucked into a…
Travel Channel external site
 The 10 Biggest Reserve Militaries in the World
The 10 Biggest Reserve Militaries in the World
The Richest external site
 Nicole Kidman Confesses to Misery in Tom Cruise Marriage, Says She's Finally Happy
Nicole Kidman Confesses to Misery in Tom Cruise…
RadarOnline.com external site
 Time to come clean on CSAs
Time to come clean on CSAs
RBS external site
Recommended by
 Miranda Kerr's high-flying sex life revelations
Miranda Kerr's high-flying sex life revelations
Daily Life external site
Is this American Apparel's most shocking campaign ever?
Is this American Apparel's most shocking campaign ever?
Daily Life external site
 
inShare
submit to redditEmail articlePrint
Advertisement

Most popular
1Miss America Nina Davuluri has sought to intervene in the case of a high school boy suspended for asking her to the prom. Teenage boy suspended for question he asked of Miss ... Contains:
2Malaysia Airlines flight MH192 landed safely in Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia jet makes safe emergency landing Contains:
3MH370 Fox executive fired over MH370 fundraising email Contains:
4Queenslander survives fatal Everest avalanche (Thumbnail) Australian 'minutes' off Everest avalanche Contains:
5A police officer takes a swab from the mouth of a relative as part of DNA testing at the gymnasium in Jindo, South Korea, where families are waiting for news of their loved ones. Angry relatives clash with police as South Korea ... Contains:
World News Video More video

Rubin ‘Hurricane’ Carter dies at 76
American boxer Rubin 'Hurricane' Carter, who was wrongfully convicted for murder, has died aged 76 from complications with prostate cancer.
'Run to her and start raping her hard' (Video Thumbnail)Click to play video
Russian leader: 'Run to her and start raping her'
Teen suspended for asking Miss America to prom (Video Thumbnail)Click to play video
Teen suspended for asking Miss America to prom
Malaysia Airlines plane forced to turn back (Video Thumbnail)Click to play video
Malaysia Airlines plane forced to turn back
Featured advertisers

Special offers
Powered by Mozo

Most commented
Articles
Hackers lurking in vents and vending machines 2 comments
Blogs
Advertisement

Real Estate
 See what Bec and Llayton are selling
See what Bec and Llayton are selling
Domain.com.au
Buy real estate
How much is my house worth?
FREE Property Newsletter
Jobs
 adzuna_logo--1-
Find your perfect job today
Adzuna.com.au
What is Adzuna?
Where are all the jobs?
Jobs blog
TheVine
 Camilla-show-thumb
9 observations from Camilla's show in Melbourne
Thevine.com.au
Entertainment & celebrity news
Fashion trends and collections
Music news and reviews
Accommodation
 Ocean Farm
Wish you were here?
Stayz.com.au
Escape to Byron Bay
Escape to Lorne
Escape to Gold Coast
Relationships
 Couple in a piggyback pose
Australia's Favourite Dating Site
Rsvp.com.au
Meet Sydney singles
Get started for free!
Singles events for all ages
Compare and Save
Skip to:
Best Deals
Mobile
Broadband
Home Loans
Credit Cards
Low Rate Cards
Rewards Cards
Savings Accts
Money Deals
Loans
Check out today's best deals

HSBC Day To Day

Free access to 3000+ ATMs nationally. No account fee
Find Out More
ME Bank Bonus Rate

Boost your savings with a cool 4.60% p.a. for 5 months
Find Out More
Westpac Flexi Loan

No fees for extra withdrawals or early repayments
Find Out More
GALAXY S5 Deals

Online only deals include double data
Galaxy S5 Prices
Double Data & 4 More

Online only deals include 4 Months at Half Price
Galaxy S5 Deals
Readers' most viewed

Most viewed articles on Brisbane Times
Top 5 World articles
Teenage boy suspended for question he asked of Miss America
MH370 charity email gets Fox executive fired
Australian 'minutes' off Everest avalanche
Brother delivers hope and sushi to imprisoned Peter Greste
Malaysia jet makes safe emergency landing
Most viewed articles on The Sydney Morning Herald
Top 5 World articles
Teenage boy suspended for question he asked of Miss America
Malaysia jet makes safe emergency landing
Fox executive fired over MH370 fundraising email
Australian 'minutes' off Everest avalanche
Angry relatives clash with police as South Korea recovers dead
Most viewed articles on The Age
Top 5 World articles
MH370 charity email gets Fox executive fired
Teenage boy suspended for question he asked of Miss America
Malaysia jet makes safe emergency landing
Angry relatives clash with police as South Korea recovers dead
Hurricane Carter fought racism for freedom and justice
Most viewed articles on Canberra Times
Top 5 World articles
MH370 charity email gets Fox executive fired
Australian 'minutes' off Everest avalanche
Malaysia jet makes safe emergency landing
South Korean ferry evacuation crippled by chaos: transcript
Fox executive fired over MH370 fundraising email
Most viewed articles on WA Today
Top 5 World articles
MH370 charity email gets Fox executive fired
Teenage boy suspended for question he asked of Miss America
Malaysia jet makes safe emergency landing
Angry relatives clash with police as South Korea recovers dead
Fox executive fired over MH370 fundraising email

SMH Home NSW Federal Politics World National Environment Business Digital Life Entertainment Life & Style Travel Cars Exec Style Sport Weather
Sydney Morning Herald
Sitemap
About Us
Contact Us
Support
Advertise with Us
AM Today
Last 8 days
Text Version
Site Accessibility Guide
Connect
Mobile Site
SMH for iPad
Newspaper Replica
RSS
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Products & Services
Subscribe
Manage My Subscription
My Benefits
Digital Subscription FAQs
Good Food Guide
SMH Shop
Newsletters
Classifieds
Place an Ad
Accommodation
Cars
Dating
Jobs
Property Price Data
Real Estate
Buy and Sell
Tributes
Celebrations
Special Reports
Fairfax Media
Member Centre
Conditions of Use
Privacy Policy
News Store Archive
Photo Sales
Purchase Front Pages
Fairfax Syndication
Fairfax Events
Fairfax Careers
Press Council
Fairfax MediaOur Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone TheVine Our Partners Buy & Sell Cracker
Copyright © 2014 Fairfax Media
Feedback Form
2:30PM Monday Apr 21, 201414,524 online nowDo you know more about a story?contact us Real EstateCarsJobsDatingNewslettersFairfax Media NetworkMore





Read more: http://www.smh.com.au/world/east-ukraine-breaks-easter-truce-with-fatal-shooting-20140420-zqx4g.html#ixzz2zUa6vYNs
